README.md, before:


# Reflection

I designed the ‘Sydney Harbour Bridge turns 90’ as a site that tells the story of the creation of the bridge. I used a range of items from the Powerhouse Collection including photographs, drawings/diagrams, badges and more. I have tried to highlight the images, using supporting text and captions to aid in telling the story.

In my low-fi prototypes I had placed a form of navigation at the bottom of each of the pages with circles and arrows. At the time I thought it would aid use of the website, however, I ultimately left it out. I did this because I believe the header (which is fixed on all content pages) does a better job as the navigation and there is a continue button which takes the user to the next page.

If I were to recreate the site I might rethink the navigation. In its current form the site is quite open and the user has the freedom to look at whichever page they want whenever. I think I could have made this site more controlled by not allowing that and keeping the user on a defined ‘journey’. But as a user I don’t love being confined so perhaps that’s why I didn’t go in that direction. I still believe the site is successful in its current form but it is interesting to think about alternate versions.

I have primarily used grid systems to create the structure for the site. I made 6 different grids and have used them multiple times in each page. I picked the grid for the content depending on how many images needed to be in the same section, the amount of text and the quality of the image.
I have used some hover functions including links darkening and tiles on the homepage moving. If this site needed to be responsive for mobiles I would remove the hover functions and instead make links always stand out from the text around them.

With so many of the items from the Powerhouse being black and white, I challenged myself to use colour in different ways. Each section on the site has a different colour theme. I’ve used different shades of the colours for the backgrounds and text, creating a contrast between the pages. Early on, Riley gave me the idea to tint the black and white images, which I did using Photoshop. This allowed the images to work with the colours of each page and also created consistency among the images. Without the tints the images would be different tones with different backgrounds etc. This could have distracted from the subject of the site and made the differences in the images more of a focus.

At the beginning of the semester I had basically no coding experience but I dedicated a lot of time to learning and worked really consistently over the semester on this website. Overall I am happy with how it has turned out, but I would be keen to rework some of the ideas.

# Prototype comparison

![prototype of index page](/reflection/index.png)
My index page looks very similar to this. Happy with that!

![prototype of content page](/reflection/content.png)
My content pages use exactly these grids. I have gone rogue in a few areas though, but this was necessary for the content that I used. I did cull the hero graphic thing I had – instead using an image. I just felt that the white background with the graphic was way too stark and uninteresting.

![prototype of end of content page](/reflection/bottom.png)
This is pretty much what the end of the content pages look like but again, no graphic element – instead going with the slightly blurred background image and coloured text!


# Resources
https://blog.prototypr.io/how-to-make-a-background-blur-in-css-with-one-line-of-code-e446c7236e60
I used this for the hero images. Very useful!


https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/complete-guide-grid/
Amazing resource for the grid.

My main resources for this assignment were Riley and Ben! Thanks!

Commit message:

eleven
updated svg for all content pages
tidy of code

README.md, after:


# Reflection

I designed the ‘Sydney Harbour Bridge turns 90’ as a site that tells the story of the creation of the bridge. I used a range of items from the Powerhouse Collection including photographs, drawings/diagrams, badges and more. I have tried to highlight the images, using supporting text and captions to aid in telling the story.

In my low-fi prototypes I had placed a form of navigation at the bottom of each of the pages with circles and arrows. At the time I thought it would aid use of the website, however, I ultimately left it out. I did this because I believe the header (which is fixed on all content pages) does a better job as the navigation and there is a continue button which takes the user to the next page.

If I were to recreate the site I might rethink the navigation. In its current form the site is quite open and the user has the freedom to look at whichever page they want whenever. I think I could have made this site more controlled by not allowing that and keeping the user on a defined ‘journey’. But as a user I don’t love being confined so perhaps that’s why I didn’t go in that direction. I still believe the site is successful in its current form but it is interesting to think about alternate versions.

I have primarily used grid systems to create the structure for the site. I made 6 different grids and have used them multiple times in each page. I picked the grid for the content depending on how many images needed to be in the same section, the amount of text and the quality of the image.
I have used some hover functions including links darkening and tiles on the homepage moving. If this site needed to be responsive for mobiles I would remove the hover functions and instead make links always stand out from the text around them.

With so many of the items from the Powerhouse being black and white, I challenged myself to use colour in different ways. Each section on the site has a different colour theme. I’ve used different shades of the colours for the backgrounds and text, creating a contrast between the pages. Early on, Riley gave me the idea to tint the black and white images, which I did using Photoshop. This allowed the images to work with the colours of each page and also created consistency among the images. Without the tints the images would be different tones with different backgrounds etc. This could have distracted from the subject of the site and made the differences in the images more of a focus.

At the beginning of the semester I had basically no coding experience but I dedicated a lot of time to learning and worked really consistently over the semester on this website. Overall I am happy with how it has turned out, but I would be keen to rework some of the ideas.

# Prototype comparison

![prototype of index page](/reflection/index.png)
My index page looks very similar to this. Happy with that!

![prototype of content page](/reflection/content.png)
My content pages use exactly these grids. I have gone rogue in a few areas though, but this was necessary for the content that I used. I did cull the hero graphic thing I had – instead using an image. I just felt that the white background with the graphic was way too stark and uninteresting.

![prototype of end of content page](/reflection/bottom.png)
This is pretty much what the end of the content pages look like but again, no graphic element – instead going with the slightly blurred background image and coloured text!


# Resources
https://blog.prototypr.io/how-to-make-a-background-blur-in-css-with-one-line-of-code-e446c7236e60

I used this for the hero images. Very useful!

https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/complete-guide-grid/

Amazing resource for the grid.

https://medium.com/@colinlord/how-to-export-svgs-for-the-web-from-illustrator-829bc1c841f6

I used this for my svgs. This was helpful because I had been inserting them with an img tag, but that doesn't allow for interactivity, but the svg code that did exist from my initial export wasn't working. This source showed me the settings to use instead (on Illustrator) but I did have to modify the settings because I did not want the size to be in the html, I wanted to do that in the css.

My main resources for this assignment were Riley and Ben! Thanks!
